<clem> Welcome everyone to this weekly meeting
<clem> I'm hoping we'll keep things short today and we won't go over 1 hour in length
<clem> the topics for today are:
<clem> - Follow up on actions
<clem> - Segfault Blog
<clem> - 1.8 Release
<clem> - General questions

<clem> Following up on the actions...
<clem> - @clem: Add rjanja, cobinja to the triaging team
<clem> --> I didn't get a chance to do that
<clem> - @clem, @glebihan, @briand: Talk about pastebin and integration with xchat/DE
<clem> --> Nothing was done on this either :(
* clem looks at his shoes
<clem> right.. next topic...
<clem> Segfault Blog
<glebihan> it's gonna be quick that way ;)
<clem> The blog was successfully started
<clem> it's hosted at http://segfault.linuxmint.com
<clem> so far we kept a pace of 1 article per day but we only have two active contributors at the moment
<clem> Any questions regarding the blog before we move on to the next topic?
* glebihan now looks at his shoes
<clem> nice shoes glebihan 
<glebihan> thanks :)
<clem> right, next topic then ...
* clem whispers to glebihan, "only kidding, I don't like them" :)

<clem> 1.8 release
<clem> Cinnamon 1.8.0 was released
* glebihan doesn't believe clem
<clem> all packages were labeled 1.8.0
<AlbertP> muffin too has jumped from 1.1.2 to 1.7.x to 1.8.0 versions.
<clem> they can now evolve independently on the 1.8.x wave as we fix bugs
<clem> yes
<clem> so for instance, we can fix a few bugs in cinnamon and label it 1.8.1
<clem> and have muffin and all stay at 1.8.0
<clem> we won't make announcements for these bug fixes minor releases
<glebihan> none at all ?
<clem> any question on 1.8? anything you want to see included in 1.8.1?
<AlbertP> mtwebster's menu pull already got merged?
<mtwebster> AlbertP: yes
<AlbertP> indeed, I see it on github #1958.
<clem> link?
<AlbertP> clem: no need, it's merged already.https://github.com/linuxmint/Cinnamon/pull/1958
<clem> oh yes, that's in 1.8.0 already
<AlbertP> For Muffin, what do we do with pulls #80 and #82? We should add a [2.0] label if they get postponed.
<clem> there's a couple of fixes from glebihan coming in 1.8.1 and we're moving background defs to cinnamon-background-properties
<mtwebster> i don't think 82 should wait for 2.0
<glebihan> clem, my fixes are packaging fixes, they should be used when you push 1.8.0 into the repos
<clem> #80 can wait
<clem> glebihan: we'll probably have 1.8.1 by then
<AlbertP> mtwebster: indeed I haven't had a response from luyikei yet on this, so we should't merge it right now.
<clem> #82 we should talk about it when we get a chance
<mtwebster> https://github.com/linuxmint/nemo/pull/282  i'd like to see in, as technically it's a fix, but not a huge deal
<glebihan> clem, ok, didn't know when you intended to push
<AlbertP> clem: label #80 as [2.0], keep #82 for the moment, ok?
<clem> ok AlbertP 
<clem> ok mtwebster 
<clem> I'll check with you later on on this one mtwebster 
<AlbertP> clem: we should remove muffin suggesting the gnome-session package in the deb packages.
<glebihan> AlbertP, why ?
<clem> gnome-session-bin is needed, not gnome-session
<AlbertP> glebihan: gnome-session is the session of Gnome Shell. gnome-session-bin is the gnome session manager which we're using.
<glebihan> ok
<clem> do you want to make a pull AlbertP? or glebihan you want to commit that quickly?
<glebihan> as a matter of fact, shouldn't we consider getting rid of the muffin package at some point ?
<clem> yes
<clem> but in the future :))
<AlbertP> clem: we'd better have it recommend Cinnamon instead of a gnome shell package.
<glebihan> clem, I can do it. So I should just replace gnome-session with gnome-session-bin right ?
<clem> glebihan: gnome-session-bin would be a depend I think
<glebihan> ok
<clem> glebihan: it's cinnamon which should depend on gnome-session-bin really
<AlbertP> clem & glebihan: a dependency of cinnamon, not of muffin. Muffin is just recommending it.
<glebihan> err
<glebihan> no
<glebihan> muffin shouldn't depend on gnome-session-bin, recommend is correct I think
<glebihan> same for cinnamon
<clem> glebihan: although technically yes, you don't "need" it
<clem> glebihan: you only need it to use the cinnamon session def
<AlbertP> I'd rather have Muffin recommend cinnamon, then cinnamon would depend or recommend gnome-session-bin.
<glebihan> AlbertP, no, as long as we have the muffin package, it should recommend gnome-session-bin as well
<glebihan> AlbertP, muffin can be run without cinnamon, it shouldn't count on what cinnamon defines as dependencies
<clem> glebihan: muffin doesn't provide its own session
<clem> glebihan: anyway we don't even install muffin...
<glebihan> clem, exactly why I think we should get rid of it
<clem> :))
<clem> ok, anything else in regards to 1.8?
<AlbertP> glebihan: I think this dependency was intended to have mutter recommend the whole gnome session including the Shell.
<glebihan> so... remove gnome-session recommends in muffin and add gnome-session-bin recommends on cinnamon ?
<AlbertP> Cinnamon also has some pulls that would need to be marked [2.0].
<AlbertP> glebihan: for Muffin, remove it indeed please; I will take a look what cinnamon's depending on currently.
<AlbertP> glebihan: gnome-session-bin is currently not mentioned at cinnamon's dependencies/recommends, so feel free to add it somewhere in debian/control.
<clem> glebihan: yes
<AlbertP> I think we'd mark Cinnamon #1953 as [2.0] too, https://github.com/linuxmint/Cinnamon/pull/1953
<clem> yes
<clem> and 1907
<AlbertP> and #1968 is 2.0 too? I wasn't certain for this one.
<clem> yes
* GitHub100 (GitHub100@SpotChat-ddhug2.rs.github.com) has joined #linuxmint-dev
<GitHub100> [muffin] glebihan pushed 1 new commit to master: http://git.io/nnmU2w
<GitHub100> muffin/master 82cecd8 Gwendal Le Bihan: Remove useless recommends
* GitHub100 (GitHub100@SpotChat-ddhug2.rs.github.com) has left #linuxmint-dev
* Testing567 (Testing567@SpotChat-uprfnl.dyn.optonline.net) has joined #linuxmint-dev
<AlbertP> And Muffin shouldn't suggest gnome-control-center anymore, shouldn't it?
<clem> no
* satellit_e has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)
* GitHub4 (GitHub4@SpotChat-ddhug2.rs.github.com) has joined #linuxmint-dev
<GitHub4> [Cinnamon] glebihan pushed 1 new commit to master: http://git.io/EO2iuw
<GitHub4> Cinnamon/master d619677 Gwendal Le Bihan: Add recommends on gnome-session-bin
* GitHub4 (GitHub4@SpotChat-ddhug2.rs.github.com) has left #linuxmint-dev
<AlbertP> clem & glebihan: I'll remove the gnome-control-center suggestion.
<clem> ok
<glebihan> AlbertP, I'll do it while I'm at it
<clem> muffin isn't used so it's no big deal, but you're right, it shouldn't
<AlbertP> glebihan: I already have the file open here, so no need to.
* Garmine (Garmine@SpotChat-mt1omi.pool.telekom.hu) has joined #linuxmint-dev
* GitHub130 (GitHub130@SpotChat-ddhug2.rs.github.com) has joined #linuxmint-dev
<GitHub130> [muffin] glebihan pushed 1 new commit to master: http://git.io/iWH3Dg
<GitHub130> muffin/master dd7d9ce Gwendal Le Bihan: Remove useless suggests
* GitHub130 (GitHub130@SpotChat-ddhug2.rs.github.com) has left #linuxmint-dev
<glebihan> AlbertP, too late
<glebihan> :)
<AlbertP> ok.
<clem> anything else on 1.8?
<clem> any "General Questions"?
<mtwebster> clem: a few spices website things
<clem> ok
<mtwebster> another reminder to remove your applets and desklets that are already in cinnamon :)  and, maybe improve the developer side of it, like notifications for comments
<mtwebster> because we'll certainly have people complaining to devs to fix their stuff that doesn't download properly from cinnamon settings
<clem> which one you want to see removed in particular?
<mtwebster> clem: any that are duplicated in cinnamon already.  for instance, the photo desklet online is older than what's in cinnamon
<mtwebster> the one we package uses the settings api, the one on spices doesn't
<mtwebster> yet the online one shows as an upgrade
<mtwebster> so it would be confusing
<clem> gone
<clem> clock and launcher gone as well
<mtwebster> ok
<mtwebster> i think there area  few applets but maybe you don't own them
<mtwebster> they have the @cinnamon.org uuid though
<clem> nightlife mint version gone
* DarkEra (DarkEra@SpotChat-ep7sqb.access.telenet.be) has joined #linuxmint-dev
<AlbertP> clem: I think we should mark gnome 3.8 compatibility pulls as [2.0] too.
<AlbertP> muffin#81 and Cinnamon#1888
<mtwebster> recent documents, trash, a11y applets
<clem> is recent in cinnamon?
<AlbertP> clem: yes it's in 1.8 at least
<mtwebster> clem: yes all those are
<AlbertP> clem: the 1.8 translation of Applets in Dutch is horrible! Let me correct that before Mint 15 please.
<mtwebster> hehe
<clem> AlbertP: that's in LP
<AlbertP> clem: I know, but I thought I'd let you know then you can pull new LP translations into cinnamon before the mint 15 release.
<clem> I don't see recent in cinnamon...
<clem> AlbertP: oh yes, I will anyway
* blubb (blubb@SpotChat-6f0pqe.hsi7.kabel-badenwuerttemberg.de) has joined #linuxmint-dev
<glebihan> clem, https://github.com/linuxmint/Cinnamon/tree/master/files/usr/share/cinnamon/applets/recent%40cinnamon.org
<clem> it's there alright..
<clem> oh ok.. it was hidden by the one I downloaded :))
<clem> hehe, good point to illustrate the problem :)
<clem> ok recent, trash, a11y are gone
* satellit_e (satellit@SpotChat-ub2.d9o.0.72.IP) has joined #linuxmint-dev
<clem> mtwebster: notifications on comments, yes, but that's for later
<clem> anything other questions/remarks?
<mtwebster> i think 1.8 came together nice in the end
<clem> yes, it's a bit about the bumpmaps
<clem> a "pity" sorry
<AlbertP> do we really need to depend on libgnome2-common?
<clem> it provides... /usr/share/gconf/schemas/desktop_gnome_background.schemas
<clem> interesting :)
<clem> and /usr/share/gconf/schemas/desktop_gnome_peripherals_mouse.schemas
<glebihan> that feels a bit outdated :)
<AlbertP> clem: huh? I don't see that file in "apt content libgnome2-common" on Mint 13.
<AlbertP> clem: oops I did apt contains libgnome2-common instead.
<AlbertP> gconf schemas can be thrown away if you ask it me.
<clem> we can probably get rid of the dep
* Oscar799 has quit (Quit: Leaving)
<AlbertP> glebihan: I'll remove this dep from muffin ok?
<mtwebster> speaking of dependencies, i'm gonna start having a look at cinnamon-s-d
<glebihan> AlbertP, ok
<clem> there's three things I'm worried about for Mint 15
<clem> 1. DVDs don't play (probably something small)
<clem> 2. MDM was fixed in regards to freezes but you're scaring me here on that glebihan :)
<clem> 3. The super-awesome fly-through-the-sky MDM theme which was going to make everyone ditch Windows for Linux Mint relies on WebGL and doesn't work on all specs :(
* GitHub116 (GitHub116@SpotChat-ddhug2.rs.github.com) has joined #linuxmint-dev
<GitHub116> [muffin] AlbertJP pushed 1 new commit to master: http://git.io/_eAm7w
<GitHub116> muffin/master 9944ab3 Albert Pool: Remove libgnome2-common dependency
* GitHub116 (GitHub116@SpotChat-ddhug2.rs.github.com) has left #linuxmint-dev
<clem> I'm planning to upload my ISOs for QA on Wednesday night
<clem> hopefully everything will be fixed by then :)
<clem> aiming for mid-month for the RC
<AlbertP> clem: where's that MDM theme?
<mtwebster> yeah webgl doesn't work on my quadro 2000 - apparently good enough for engineering 3d models, but not clouds
<mtwebster> i was pissed
<clem> AlbertP: in mint-mdm-themes
<mtwebster> it barely runs on a sandybridge
<mtwebster> like 4 fps
<clem> mtwebster: I'll try to get a version of that same theme without using webGL
<clem> mtwebster: samriggs animated themes run fine in Virtualbox without 3D accel, whereas the cloud theme doesn't
<clem> mtwebster: his animations are 2D though
<mtwebster> ah
<clem> mtwebster: still, stuff moves in the background, people notice, that's the main thing really
<AlbertP> clem: on mint 15? Don't see a cloud theme on Mint 14 mdm themes.
<clem> AlbertP: Mint 15
<mtwebster> AlbertP: there's a forum thread that he uploaded it to as well
<clem> AlbertP: v1.0.8
<mtwebster> lemme find it
<clem> http://forums.linuxmint.com/viewtopic.php?f=25&t=126979
<clem> Alright, we managed to fit the meeting without one hour for the VERY FIRST TIME! :)
<mtwebster> yeah that
<clem> congratulations everyone
<mtwebster> lol
<clem> and many thanks for being here
<clem> the minutes and logs will be uploaded shortly, see you all next week for the next meeting ;)

