<clem_> Hi everybody and welcome to our 2nd meeting
<glebihan> hi
<d[-_-]b> hi
<clem_> I'll try to go faster than last week this time :)
<clem_> the topics are:
<clem_> - Follow up on actions
<clem_> - 3.8 compatibility
<clem_> - 1.8 ETA and Roadmap
<clem_> - Dev blog
<clem_> - General questions
<clem_> Let's start with the first topic
* clem_ a changé le sujet en : Current topic: Follow up on actions
<clem_> @clem: autarkper, lusito, dalcde, rjanja, cobinja and a question mark on larst
<clem_> I managed to talk to dalcde and include him in the triaging team
<clem_> I'm yet to do the same for the other people mentioned
<clem_> I've met Lusito on a couple of occasions so that should happen soon
<clem_> @city-busz, clem, glebihan, mtwebster: Talk about 3.8 desktop rendering issue
<clem_> mtwebster took the lead on this and solved the issue with a global pull on 3.8 compatibility, there's a topic for this so I won't go in the details yet
<clem_> - @clem: upgrade applet server code
<clem_> Nothing was done on this one :(
<Lusito> Not sure how much time I can devote to reading and judging tickets, but I'd try
<clem_> @clem: list all problems for 1.8
<clem_> I tested and listed everything I bumped into within the Roadmap
<clem_> Next topic..
* clem_ a changé le sujet en : Current topic: 3.8 compatibility
<clem_> So here, we had an issue with Arch/Cinnarch and an upcoming issue with Fedora since they're using GNOME 3.8
<clem_> Arch upgraded GNOME in their repository yesterday
<clem_> I'd like to thank all the people who worked on this during the week
<clem_> mtwebster gathered all commits/pulls and fixed all remaining issues into one mega pull:
<Lusito> so it works with 3.8 now ?
* AlbertP (albert@SpotChat-aofquv.solcon.nl) a rejoint #linuxmint-dev
<clem_> https://github.com/linuxmint/Cinnamon/pull/1888
<clem_> according to faidoc and city-busz yes, it works fine with 3.8
<Lusito> nice
<mtwebster> there are a couple 'catches' but nothing major
<AlbertP> Github is telling that #1888 can't be automatically merged.
<clem_> now, there's good news and bad news
<clem_> the good news is that distros running 3.8 can run cinnamon...
<clem_> the bad news is that that's a lot of changes, some of them dodgy, just before 1.8
<AlbertP> did I miss much of the meet?
<Lusito> nope
<mtwebster> i'm not entirely convinced of the g-s-d and background interaction in 3.6/3.4
<clem_> no AlbertP, not much, there'll be a log too
<AlbertP> ok, that's fine.
<clem_> personally, I'd prefer for this not to go in Cinnamon 1.8
<glebihan> +1
<d[-_-]b> +
<d[-_-]b> 1
<mtwebster> i agree
<clem_> it brings nothing to 3.4/3.6 users and has a huge potential for regressions
<clem_> of course that means 3.8 distros will need to apply the merge themselves, but the code is there, tested, I think we've done more than our fair share on this one already
<mtwebster> i'll keep it rebased
* Guest1878 est parti (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)
<clem_> if it becomes an issue we can branch out and issue a release number 
<clem_> something like 1.7.4-3.8 or something
<d[-_-]b> agreed. only thing we should make sure is that this does not lead to a split into a 3.6 and 3.8 version (eg because someone changes things for 3.8 only)
<clem_> but I don't see the point of doing it until a distro requests it
<clem_> that's it, multi-tracking is something I'd rather not get into
<AlbertP> agreed. With less than a month left till mint 15 release, we don't have the time to check everything for regressions.
<clem_> once codebase that works everywhere is much easier to maintain
<clem_> s/once/one
<mtwebster> yeah.. i think that's a good one to start the next cycle on, so we have months and months to evaluate/fine tune
<clem_> ok great, so we're good for 3.8 but we're not merging it
* gaurav (gaurav@SpotChat-1ul.ag9.247.121.IP) a rejoint #linuxmint-dev
<d[-_-]b> little off-topic: any reply from the cinnarch guys?
<clem_> d[-_-]b: yes, faidoc says it worked fine in Cinnarch
<d[-_-]b> ok thx
<clem_> afaik they already have Cinnamon 1.7.x in there, patched with 3.8 support and everything runs fine
<clem_> in Arch, not just Cinnarch
<clem_> any other question re-3.8?
<AlbertP> I seem to recall City-busz (who's helping faidoc with cinnamon on arch) had a pull request related to 3.8 too.
<clem_> AlbertP: all pulls were closed, they were superseeded by https://github.com/linuxmint/Cinnamon/pull/1888
<mtwebster> and one additional in nemo
* clem_ checks
<clem_> ok yes, https://github.com/linuxmint/nemo/pull/263
<clem_> this one also, not sure? https://github.com/linuxmint/nemo/pull/258
<mtwebster> not sure about the tracker part
<City-busz> currently I have pull requests for cinnamon-screensaver only, but it's unrelated for GNOME 3.8, it applies to general GNOME compatibility
<mtwebster> haven't looked at it
<clem_> yes
<glebihan> afaik, #258 is unrelated to gnome
<clem_> ok
<City-busz> I applied this tracker patch on Arch Linux
<clem_> I'll test it hopefully tomorrow and merge it
<City-busz> it's related to GNOME 3.8
<mtwebster> the nemo-desktop-background portion was already taken care of on another patch
<mtwebster> that was teh drag and drop patch
<clem_> moving on to the next topic
<Lusito> g2g, I'll check the log later, probably won't have too much to say here anyway.. have fun
* clem_ a changé le sujet en : Current topic: - 1.8 ETA and Roadmap
* Lusito est parti (Quit: Leaving)
<clem_> so, the roadmap is currently up to date with what's left to do for Cinnamon 1.8
* rocco (rocco@SpotChat-uprfnl.dyn.optonline.net) a rejoint #linuxmint-dev
<clem_> if everyone is ok with it, I'd like to feature-freeze Cinnamon right now
<glebihan> agreed
<clem_> i.e. only bug fixes and roadmap items go in
<mtwebster> yes
<AlbertP> I'd like to see #1708 in since this one doesn't have that much regression potential.
<clem_> AlbertP: 1708 and 1629 can go in, but they need rebasing
<clem_> 1747 might also go in
<clem_> although if none of them need to
<clem_> ...
<clem_> I mean, although none of them need to :)
 Tcl interface unloaded
 Python interface unloaded
 
* Historique chargé depuis Mon Apr 22 18:25:10 2013
 
* Vous parlez maintenant sur #linuxmint-dev
* Le sujet de #linuxmint-dev est : Current topic: - 1.8 ETA and Roadmap
* Sujet de #linuxmint-dev défini par clem_!clem@help le Mon Apr 22 18:20:40 2013
* ChanServ active le mode +q #linuxmint-dev clem
* ChanServ donne l'état d'opérateur de canal à clem
<d[-_-]b> ok
* kentos (kentos@SpotChat-vai29b.mpls.qwest.net) a rejoint #linuxmint-dev
<AlbertP> with #1901, #1708 and #1629 in, I think cinnamon 1.8 is ok. #1850 is also an option, but being an applet it's also easy to distribute that one on Cinnamon Spices.
<clem> sorry, I got disconnected..
<clem> #1850 is a WIP
<clem> it's one of the cool features planned for 1.8, it's not ready so it will be a cool feature planned for 2.0
<glebihan> 1708 and 1629 can go in, but are not release blockers
<glebihan> actually 1629 has nothing to do with releases
* Malsasa est parti (Connection closed)
<clem> definitely, I think the pull pool (hehe) is ok, we might merge a bit more but we've got most of it in
<clem> on the roadmap there's a few more things to address and we're good to go imo
* Garmine (Garmine@SpotChat-r41ok4.pool.telekom.hu) a rejoint #linuxmint-dev
<clem> regarding ETAs and a release date... I've never announced dates before
<clem> I usually release "when ready"
<d[-_-]b> people like to have dates^^ it's like christmas
<mtwebster> not really important, but it's been brought up a few times before:  a session 'emblem' for cinnamon, and maybe one for the default menu
<mtwebster> i know the menu icon matches mate's
<AlbertP> Agreed. For the pull requests on Cinnamon, it's OK now. We've discussed the 10 remaining pull requests enough, if you ask it me.
<glebihan> people are impatient, but in the end, I'm sure they'd rather have a full working DE rather than one released the day it was annoucned to be
<clem> mtwebster: where is the menu icon visible?
<AlbertP> +1
<clem> mtwebster: oh sorry, I see..
<d[-_-]b> glebihan: sure
<clem> mtwebster: I've needed an icon in MDM alright to represent cinnamon..
<mtwebster> and our session select in mdm/etc.. is nothing
<clem> mtwebster: that's not a blocker or anything to do with 1.8 though
<mtwebster> of course, just mentioning it
<clem> ok, so no release date..
<d[-_-]b> maybe this could be some kind of comunity contest
<clem> we'll release when ready
<clem> i.e. when the roadmap is cleared
<AlbertP> For the menu we could use a Minty icon.
<clem> and we'll continue to merge bug fixes in before and after 1.8
<clem> it will take me 1 or 2 days to get the announcements ready for 1.8
<clem> this time next week I've got a feeling 1.8 will be out already
<clem> then again, if it's not, it's not, no pressure or deadlines here
<d[-_-]b> will it be part of backports for 13?
<clem> d[-_-]b: yes
<d[-_-]b> nice
* gargamel (gargamel@SpotChat-l22.5tv.130.177.IP) a rejoint #linuxmint-dev
<gaurav> clem: along with nemo too?
<clem> gaurav: yes
<clem> ok next topic:
* clem a changé le sujet en : Current topic: Dev blog
<clem> The "dev blog" is no other than the cinnamon.linuxmint.com blog
<clem> I'm planning on adding its RSS feed to the LM planet (the one that populates people's FF auto-bookmark)
<gaurav> we really need some screenshots for the slideshow on the top, it currently has only one
<clem> and opening it to more authors than myself
* Guest2194 s'appelle maintenant vrkalak
* vrkalak s'appelle maintenant Guest80331
<clem> the main blog is tied to the website, and social networks and isn't the place to talk about new stuff every time we commit something
<clem> the audience on cinnamon.linuxmint.com is different though
<clem> and that's a place where we could meet people who want more news, more detailed and more frequent
<AlbertP> The cinnamon.linuxmint.com blog should indeed be updated more frequently if we want it to be interesting to end users.
<d[-_-]b> in this case i'm not sure about inserting it into ff by default
<glebihan> it does have one downside though
<AlbertP> There's loads of new features that are worth being posted on such a blog.
<gaurav> ok, I'm just viewing that site and the slideshow with one screenshot is really bugging me
<glebihan> if the dev blog is going to be on cinnamon's website, it's gonna make it harder to share about other dev topics
<clem> d[-_-]b: for reference, any youtube video called "Linux Mint something" gets in the bookmarks
* gaurav est parti (Quit: Leaving)
<clem> d[-_-]b: so there's definitely room for cinnamon devs to be there too :)
<d[-_-]b> clem ook in this case it fits
<clem> d[-_-]b: it's the dropdown "News" item in the bookmark toolbar
<clem> glebihan: that's a good point
<d[-_-]b> clem i think i deleted that one
<clem> glebihan: it begs the question as to whether we needed a cinnamon website in the first place, or a website to talk about development
<glebihan> clem, well, I think there are 2 kind of audiences here, and the cinnnamon website is interesting for "normal" users
<clem> glebihan: I guess this is something the website audience should answer at some stage
<clem> glebihan: but you agree that joe user and his grandma don't visit cinnamon.linuxmint.com
<d[-_-]b> question is if we would like them to do so
<clem> well I'm not sure..
<clem> probably not
<glebihan> clem, within the mint community, probably not, outside of it, maybe more, but I guess you're right
<d[-_-]b> i don't think so as well
<clem> I heard some complaints that the cinnamon website didn't explain what cinnamon was...
<clem> and I kept thinking "how the hell did that guy got to the website?"
<d[-_-]b> maybe google?
<clem> it's a website for people who want to know what's coming right?
<AlbertP> We could post the details on the cinnamon website when interesting features get added, and use the general Linux Mint blog to post a summary of new features when we release a major version like 1.8.
<clem> you'd assume they already know what cinnamon is
<clem> AlbertP: yes
<glebihan> clem, probably from http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Desktop_environment or similar
<d[-_-]b> well i guess some people might read: linux mint cinnamon somewhere. so they go out and try to find something about it
<clem> regarding the blog, just like the triaging team, we'll need to set up a team of authors I guess
<AlbertP> clem: about getting to the website, it's indeed not that easy to find a link to it on the web.
<clem> AlbertP: but that's because Cinnamon isn't trying to sell itself
<clem> AlbertP: the website is there for existing users, not as a vitrine to potential new ones
<d[-_-]b> AlbertP: let's say someone reads an article about Linux Mint and Cinnamon. If he googles "linux mint cinnamon" it's the first hit
<clem> right..
<clem> and that's something that's a fair argument vs Mint as well
<d[-_-]b> clem you should consider that many people switch to Mint mainly because of Cinnamon. So I think explaining what Cinnamon is won't be bad
<clem> maybe you're right
* Déconnecté (Connexion ré-initialisée par le correspondant).
* clem est déjà utilisé. Réessai avec clem_...
* clem_ active le mode +i clem_
* clem_ active le mode +x clem_
-InfoServ- *** Message(s) of the Day ***
-InfoServ- [Portscans] Notice from Kuja, posted 15:31 on 09/10/2011:
-InfoServ- On connecting to this Network you are agreeing to be scanned for open Proxies. Please disregard any messages from Monitoring or Security software about this matter, it helps us keeping our Network a safe place.
-InfoServ- *** End of Message(s) of the Day ***
-NickServ- Welcome to SpotChat, clem_! Here on SpotChat, we provide services to enable the registration of nicknames and channels! For details, type /msg NickServ help and /msg ChanServ help.
-NickServ- You are now identified for clem.
* nutime.de.SpotChat.org active le mode -x clem_
* Vous parlez maintenant sur #linuxmint-dev
* Le sujet de #linuxmint-dev est : Current topic: Dev blog
* Sujet de #linuxmint-dev défini par clem!clem@help le Mon Apr 22 18:36:15 2013
* ChanServ active le mode +q #linuxmint-dev clem_
* ChanServ donne l'état d'opérateur de canal à clem_
<glebihan> as far as I can tell, there are still at least as many MATE users as Cinnamon ones on Mint
<clem_> sorry, I got DSQ again... with 3 ISPs you'd think one of them would work for an hour...
<AlbertP> d[-_-]b: I think you are right. Cinnamon has a good reputation already on forums, and also in this chat, many people reading that become interested in what cinnamon actually is.
<clem_> so, for the dev blog, I'd like to welcome people in
* clem est parti (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)
<clem_> and we can talk about how and what to do together within the blog team then
<clem_> I don't think there's a need for me to set rules or guidelines since I'll probably learn as much as everyone else while going through it :)
<d[-_-]b> fine
<AlbertP> I would be available for that. Have written for a magazine before.
<clem_> if we get to the point where we have an article every day and a crowd of passionate users and we cover more stuff than just cinnamon...
<clem_> then even better
<clem_> I was talking about omg and webupd8 earlier on
<clem_> these tabloids are focused on unity and shell
<mtwebster> do we start our own 'independent' spin page? :)
<mtwebster> j/k
<clem_> :)
<clem_> one common thing that people say is that cinnamon isn't very active
<AlbertP> and otherwise I could check the spelling of other people's items; at the magazine I've improved many articles written by a dyslectic.
* Guest80331 est parti (Quit: Leaving)
<clem_> when Cinnarch said it was 1 year late, I've read comments of people questioning our ability to maintain a DE
<clem_> it all comes down to perception here
<clem_> because nobody looks at the 1.2 and 1.4 releases and doesn't agree on the achievements
<clem_> sorry.. 1.4 and 1.6 :)
<d[-_-]b> how bout some chart?
<clem_> but you can read hype on the next Unity every day
<clem_> I don't even plan to give Unity a 10 minutes go when Ubuntu releases... yet, I know all its new features
<clem_> for people who want to read buzz/hype about the next Cinnamon, the only source there is is github...
<AlbertP> clem_: To me it seems like people on the Mint forum / Mint chat are no longer questioning this ability, but maybe they still do on other forums that are not Mint specific.
<mtwebster> i think the results can speak for themselves, with a blog to highlight things
<clem_> AlbertP: probably, and there's a concentration of like-minded people in these blogs as well
<clem_> AlbertP: you can appreciate the lack of interest shown in the comments sections when MATE 1.6 was announced
<mtwebster> AlbertP: on some forums/mailing lists, cinnamon is still a crappy 'fork'
* Oscar799 est parti (Quit: Leaving)
<clem_> so I'll go around the block asking people if they want to get involved in the blog then and we'll get things started slowly but surely
<clem_> we'll post a few articles, see how people react, see what we learn about ourselves and if need changes from the website/blog itself then
<d[-_-]b> clem_ if we had something like a chart which lists time on x axis and features on y axis, everybody could really see the progress
<d[-_-]b> it just would strike you more than reading tons of blogs
<clem_> d[-_-]b: I think the progress is there, the 1.6 announcement stressed that
<clem_> d[-_-]b: but there's probably a demand for buzz
<clem_> d[-_-]b: for instance, I read my gaming news every day :)
<clem_> d[-_-]b: I don't like gamespot and IGN much, but they're great at providing me with my daily dose
<clem_> d[-_-]b: if you like cinnamon and you want cinnamon news, it's hard to get your daily dose these days, even if things move on github
<clem_> and MATE probably has that problem as well
<clem_> maybe that's something we can cover as well.. there again we go back to glebihan's point
<d[-_-]b> clem_ totally agreed. and i appreciate having a well updated blog. i just was thinking if we had this chart, every time someone would say "cinnamon is not active enough" you could point him there like "and what's that, huh?"
<clem_> d[-_-]b: we do..
<clem_> https://github.com/linuxmint/Cinnamon/graphs
<d[-_-]b> yes but that's github. (and not to much understandable for a common user to be honest)
<AlbertP> Github just added the "pulse" to see recent developments. https://github.com/linuxmint/Cinnamon/pulse
<glebihan> clem_, I'd like us to take some time to think about the direction we want to take with the dev blog, ie making the blog a part of cinnamon's website or making cinnamon website a part of the dev blog
<d[-_-]b> I was thinking of something more abstract. like "on day xyz we implement this new feature:"
<clem_> AlbertP: wow that's cool :)
<clem_> glebihan: ok, now or during the week?
<AlbertP> But still like d[-_-]b says this is not for common users. That's what we need the blog for.
<glebihan> clem_, there's no rush, can be during the week
<clem_> glebihan: ok, I'll put an action on this then
<clem_> ok, onto the next topic
* clem_ a changé le sujet en : Current topic: General questions
<glebihan> ok, when do we eat ?
<clem_> we already ate
<glebihan> damn
<gargamel> Cinnamon has a lot of hidden features. Only the dev knows about them. Sometimes they even forget them. So make sure you cover all these new hidden features
* City-busz est parti (Connection closed)
<clem_> any questions guys? or off-topic stuff?
<clem_> or a pull you want to talk about?
<d[-_-]b> i wonder how dolphin does their content search :P
<mtwebster> i'd like some direction on these github issues.. 
<mtwebster> there are 100's of 'make it do this'
<clem_> d[-_-]b: I've no idea, I noticed a pull on nemo about this
<d[-_-]b> clem_: yes i did it^^
<glebihan> clem_, d[-_-]b was the one making it
<clem_> d[-_-]b: oh :))
* clem_ hides
<mtwebster> yes they're enhancement requests, but at what point do we say 'not the direction we're going'
<mtwebster> when one person wants something
<d[-_-]b> clem_: no problem. it's by no means ready
<clem_> d[-_-]b: ok
<clem_> mtwebster: let's take an example.. can you point to one in particular?
<mtwebster> hmm
<d[-_-]b> mtwebster: the search thing?
<clem_> mtwebster: just one example Sarah... heh.. Michael
<mtwebster> clem_: https://github.com/linuxmint/Cinnamon/issues/629
<clem_> that's a great example actually :)
<clem_> and there's people doing +1s :))
<mtwebster> clem_: but i've heard you say on multiple occasions we wont' do it
<mtwebster> or do we succumb to pressure after a while?
<clem_> so here you're basically facing a very nice guy who's being very polite, who explains his idea and is +1'd by others...
<AlbertP> Also a very wanted feature is having a panel on a 2nd monitor.
<clem_> well, what do you think when you read the issue?
<mtwebster> that was probably a bad example of 'obscure feature'
<clem_> do you think "damn.. that guy's right"
<clem_> or do you think "damn... how am I gonna say no to him"
<mtwebster> i think of the technical and layout issues it presents
<mtwebster> i.e. applets iwth text, etc..
<mtwebster> but then i argued with lusito about it one day (he's for it)
<mtwebster> and we could limit to icon only applets, etc.. to make it work
<clem_> no
<mtwebster> i just don't like it in general
<clem_> because in the end of the day it doesn't bring much to most people and it brings a lot of complications..
<clem_> assuming you do it and it doesn't complexify the code/design/potential for bugs..
<clem_> you still need to explain to people why text isn't working when the panel is vertical
<clem_> you introduced a limitation you didn't explain
<d[-_-]b> i think this on is not a great example because it's not "either or". ie if it would be implemented it would not effect other things (apart from bugs maybe)
<AlbertP> that's true. A panel on a 2nd monitor is technically easier, and probably wanted by more people.
<mtwebster> clem_: the problem in a lot of these cases is obviously i can't read your mind.  i'm hesitant to close the door on something and you may go back and say, 'that's brilliant'
<mtwebster> yes our issue list keeps growing and growing :)
<mtwebster> yes/yet
<clem_> mtwebster: then we should treat these as we treat pulls and I should get involved when you're not sure
<clem_> mtwebster: in the end of the day github is a subset of community, which is a subset of launchpad... we've millions of users, there's no way we'll triage everything :)
* Testing567 (Testing567@SpotChat-uprfnl.dyn.optonline.net) a rejoint #linuxmint-dev
<mtwebster> clem_: how about a 'needs review' or something
<mtwebster> tag
<clem_> mtwebster: it's depressing sometimes, until you consider it from a different point of view...
<clem_> from the point of view of answering people it's a complete failure
<clem_> from the point of view of us having a pool of idea when we run out of inspiration it's brilliant
<clem_> so the main problem here isn't to pass by a great idea, but to communicate to people that we're grateful
<clem_> mtwebster: if you want, otherwise you can also assign the issue to me
<mtwebster> you guys were joking about the 'considered' tag on mint ideas
<clem_> no
<clem_> people got vexed
<clem_> considered means rejected
<clem_> it used to be called rejected and people were not happy
<clem_> now it's called considered (not as in "being considered" but as in "was considered") and people are happy
<glebihan> now they're complaining about it being called "considered" and not about the fact that the idea was rejected :)
<mtwebster> right.. i'm suggesting maybe something similar for enhancement requests
<mtwebster> but i guess it still boils down to i have to flag something for you to review
<glebihan> I've had to set as "considered" ideas asking for the "considered" status to be renamed :)
<clem_> I'm not depressed about it because I saw it happen with everything we used
<clem_> soon or later you get submerged by the size of the community
<clem_> so at first we looked at every issue and fixed or closed every single on
<clem_> because few people knew about github
<clem_> now there's 400
<clem_> tomorrow there will be 2,000
<clem_> eventually it'll boil down to making sure contributors aren't vexed and us using contributions from the pool randomly when looking for cool ideas rather than looking at all of them systematically
<clem_> I hope what I'm saying is too depressing :)
<clem_> isn't
<mtwebster> lol
<d[-_-]b> no. it has to be done this way if we won't get blocked be requests
<briand> you might've had it right, subconsciously, the first time.  ;)
<clem_> hehe
<AlbertP> clem_: contributors of pull requests already get a bit irritated when they need to rebase all the time. That's why I asked you to merge the debian build cleanup of nbourdau. It needed rebasing for the third time.
<clem_> right, and that's how everything works...
<AlbertP> #1708 also had that problem.
<clem_> you highlight something, it gets done and w00t..
<clem_> there's a lot of contributions everywhere, it's a huge problem but also a very good problem to have
<clem_> there's a lot of users out there and many of them are happy to help, we can't talk to each one of them though.. there's too many of them
<clem_> the mod team sends us the best ideas from the forums and the community website
<clem_> and everytime we speak to people we try to explain how grateful we are and that Mint is the result of it all
<mtwebster> is that a mailing list i could get on?
<mtwebster> i'm a bit detached from the community website
<clem_> on an individual basis though, we don't have the resources to communicate with our audience on a 1 to 1 basis
<clem_> mtwebster: community.linuxmint.com
<mtwebster> i know that :)  you said they send the best ideas
<clem_> oh no, by email
<mtwebster> ok
<clem_> Suzanne would send an email saying this or that or linking to a thread
<clem_> or Vincent
<clem_> back to topic though, you can assign me on github issues
<mtwebster> ok
<clem_> but really the best way to get things done is just like everything else, by harassing me on the IRC :)
<AlbertP> who's Suzanne?
<clem_> AlbertP: Oscar799
<AlbertP> ok.  didn't know that yet.
<clem_> with that said I think we're doing great
<clem_> we can look at the 400 issues and think it's too much, but that's not because Cinnamon isn't active, it's because it's got a big audience
<mtwebster> true
<d[-_-]b> i think you made it clear by now ;)
<clem_> more bug reports is a good thing after all, not a bad thing
<clem_> right, any other topic/questions?
<briand> the support folks would still like to see a Linux Mint pastebin set up somewhere.. so we don't have to advertise ubuntu or debian during support issues..  ;)
<clem_> I was hoping to set Fred on it, only he found the idea completely pointless
<clem_> I like it a lot myself, it just didn't have time to get it done
<d[-_-]b> yes. it's just more work without some real advantage
<glebihan> clem_, that's something I could work on, if noone else is interested/has time
<briand> there's no real advantage at the nuts & bolts level, I agree... it's just a more consistent experience for the end-user
<d[-_-]b> briand agreed
<briand> linuxmint branding, throughout, if you will...
<clem_> glebihan: if you want, let me have a look re-hosting first
<briand> and, you know.. there's room in the margins of those pages to promote the next great thing, etc..  ;)
<glebihan> clem_, ok
<clem_> glebihan: if it works fine server-side there'll be desktop integration in play so I'll let you have fun with that :)
<glebihan> clem_, cool :)
<clem_> we can even patch xchat I guess :)
<briand> glebihan / clem_ :  we can integrate with an xchat settings tweak and a pastebinit config that points to it out of the box.
<clem_> yes
<briand> don't even have to patch it.. just add a default config to it.
<clem_> well it could pastebin whatever takes more than say 2 lines
<briand> precisely
<clem_> so all you'd have to do is paste text in the entry and press enter
<briand> in fact, I came across a script that essentially does that, out of the box.  greater than 3 lines in the buffer, it sends it off to pastebin.  I can see if I can dig that up, if it'll be helpful to you, glebihan 
<clem_> anyway, it's a bit early for that let's talk about this outside the meeting
<clem_> briand: nice
<briand> yes, okay.   didn't intend to derail your meeting.   ;)     I'll go hide in the corner, again.   ;p
<clem_> lol
<clem_> I added an action for that
<clem_> ok, thanks everybody for being here and see you next week same time same place :)
